# Section 2.3
## Invertible Matrix Theorem - centerpiece of the course
* Let A be a square n x n matrix. Then the following statements are equivalent.
  * a. A is an invertible matrix.
  * b. A is row equivalent to I<sub>n</sub>. (Row equivalent to the identity matrix)
  * c. A has n pivot positions.
  * d. The equation A __x__ = __0__ has only the trivial solution
  * e. The columns of A form a linearly independent set.
  * f. The Lnear transformation __X__ -> A __x__ is one-to-one.
  * g. The Equation A __x__ = __b__ has at least one solution for each __b__ in R<sup>n</sup> (no free variables, so why does the book say at least one? who knows)
  * h. The columns of A span R<sup>n</sup>
  * i. The linear transformation __x__ -> A __x__ maps R<sup>n</sup> onto R<sup>n</sup>
  * j. there is an n x n matrix C such that CA = I. (no duh category) ( C and D are the same thing, both called A<sup>-1</sup>)
  * k. There is an n x n matrix D such that AD = I. (no duh category) ( Having both of these means that I don't have to check both directions now )
  * l. A<sup>T</sup> is an invertible matrix
* stopping here for today
* Fact
  * if A and B are square n x n matrices. If AB = I, then A and B are both invertible, with B = A<sup>-1</sup> and A = B<sup>-1</sup>
    * from rules j and k
* Comments
  * each statement in the Invertible Matrix Theorem describes a property of every n x n invertible matrix.
  * The negation of a statement in the theorem desceibes a property of every singular n x n matrix.
    * (again, either every rule is either true or false collectively)
    * could state "the singular matrix theorem"
 * Example 1
  * not invertible - column 3 is a multiple of column 2
  * invertible - pivot in every row, pivot in every column
    * the transpose in invertible
* Example 2
  * if C is 6 x 6 and the equation C __x__ = __v__ is consistent for every __v__ in R<sup>6</sup>, is it possible that for some __v__, the equation C __x__ = __v__ has more than one solution? Why or why not?
* Example 3?
  * if A is an n x n matrix, the the equation A __x__ = __b__ has at least one solution for each __b__ in R<sup>n</sup>.
    * false - don't have enough information on A
      * if A is invertible, this is a true statement. We don't know that though
 * example 4
  * show that if AB is invertible, so is B.
  * Work this problem assuming A and B are square.
  * Let W be the inverse of AB.
  * Thus, if W is the inverse, we know that W(AB) = I
  * Then, (WA)B = I (associative)
  * by j of the I.M.T., we can conclude that B is invertible
  * __caution about homework: assume that every matrix mentioned is a square n x n matrix unless otherwise specified__
    * __this assumption does not carry beyond this section__
## Invertible Linear Transformation
* A linear transformation T: R<sup>n</sup> -> R<sup>n</sup> is invertible if there exists a function...
* Theorem
  * If we have a linear transformation and A is the standard matrix for T. Then ,T is invertible if and only if A is invertible.
  In that case, S(__x__) = A<sup>-1</sup>...
* [Example 5](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/wkxM7MocCNPfM_C5_eWALG9-JeyoAtApuCQb53V7RFbpPRdfgbkoqPBljq9eY89Eeqn3IbPxZLjYGojxl1oTI4tTIEau4Em3zVRlmrup8SvCkD6RsrkTvvYcNz2z_k-O51U0PJ4T2IlvbK8PD5N5xWYg2b1NdPYACKrUf4W0i3EQ-sRJhFWfPj6IYbl9SuxaYx9iu6RNhKSU4wTUg07CImT5gNCAO2kgr6fukkKWD_wDAKw8PLQ8Gxx4SBHoVYbEKjVuS9_FSnixHKHdjVMo5Q-cuJPh_xHNKJ6zknP0P4XONykntz5tjva0tTtvdfhakH6ZmIYzhWyb1_7tJIoGd-SBm37jMNLdMwtSbLqAjRZBpPK5hTRsB25aSRw2XDTswNT65PW9h_XS1Ca6X9RSKYvzkIMBSnkdMWvm1YoQkRatB_AMDYHJhHI2F5riCrSlo1Qx74nWx7nm1mRK-JsljSl2Tu7LjTGy6bWzr9lKHzRkl75aUqBwZo5nPWlvTXX7PQmS64VPso97hA1c8xZKYzlYl4AiqIGhY_4nMrKfsY8XycSd8JlvHrhoimiPvp8KnKGqVuEICid5_PGpYFbieon6UftKnbdpbJiXS8BmQ4_Y_LZjCpf21O18BxFldbjzlf-zuQ85MYsjA5bMsvLMSXNPXAk_Uu0=w481-h641-no)
